>> Steve Kinney: First one is we're going
to write some super simple tests, right?
Some of them you'll be like,
why am I testing this?
Because we're writing tests.
We're getting used to,
we're getting the blood flowing, right?
You will not be surprised to learn that
addition works the way that you think it
does, right?
But it is mostly to get us comfortable and
get us the momentum of writing tests and
then I will slowly turn
up the heat on you.
And you won't even notice it.
It'll be great.
Things will escalate, it'll be great.
But then it is one thing to test that
things work the way that we think it's
gonna work in a known situation
where they should work.
Yeah, you don't wanna break that.
But then also understanding of dude,
we handle all of the weird
ways that are code can change.
We know the problem we're trying to solve.
We sit there, we write some code.
Maybe we didn't write any tests, but
maybe we pulled it up in the browser,
clicked all the buttons.
Everything did things the way
that we expected, right?
Until we put it into production and
a user comes along, and
they decide that their first
name has an emoji in it, right?
Or what have you.
Or all of the weird ways that
things can kind of happen where,
that value we thought we would
get is actually undefined, right?
And thinking about okay, so
how do we use our test to help us?
Sometimes it's not necessarily
the test is simply gonna throw those
edge cases in there.
But the thinking about our test and
using the test to make sure that we've
got all those cases covered, right?
That's kind of where we balance
the how do we write code and
how do we write tests and
how to relate with each other.
We'll play around with it there as well.
There are some little tricks
that will make your life easier.
They are the tricks that, are you
going to use them every single day?
You're probably not going to
use them every single day.
Do I expect you to memorize them?
I don't.
Do I want you to just kind of put like
a landmark in your brain, in your neural
pathways, so that like when you find
yourself struggling with a problem,
you at least remember that there can be
a better way and go and look it up, right?
That is the kind of goal there as well.
Because like I said, they are things that
make my life very easy when I use them
once every six months.
But they're probably not everyday things,
Mark.
>> Speaker 1: CJ online just said
something I've noticed with Tess
is when there's too much mocking,
there can be a false positive,
meaning things pass that shouldn't.
>> Steve Kinney: Yes.
>> Speaker 1: And then someone plus one'd.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, so
we'll talk about this.
There's this idea of mocking,
let's say you're hitting an API, right?
You probably don't want to hit
that API in every single test,
especially if you're running
a test multiple times a day.
Also, it's really hard to get the external
server to be exactly the way you want it.
So we might use this thing
called a mock which is like,
pretend this is the real world, right?
And it kind of like the intellectual
exercise kind of works here,
which is if you start making more and
more of the real world make believe,
you get to a point where you can make
the entire world make believe, and
your test will totally pass, and they're
totally worthless at the same time, right?
So, we will look at how to do that
when it's appropriate, right?
We'll do it for
a code that maybe needs it.
And we'll talk a little bit of how
to refactor some of that code so
that you don't need it as well, right?
Because if you try to make too
much of the real-world imaginary,
you end up living in a fantasy land.
And yeah, your test pass but
again, if you have not,
lower that existential dread of
making changes to your code.
It does not matter if you have
3,000 tests and 100% test coverage.
It is possible to get to
100% test coverage and
not remove any of that existential dread,
right?
You can game that number real easily and
still have no value.
And that's why we're not aiming for
the sheer number of tests,
the sheer amount of test coverage.
It is, do you feel comfortable
refactoring the code?
And if you've mapped out way too much and
you don't feel comfortable refactoring
your code, then we know that
we haven't been successful.
Yeah, cool.
And most of us are JavaScript engineers.
And this is a website
called frontendmasters.com.
So I can make some assumptions
that maybe not all of you, but
some of you have once in
a time dabbled in the browser.
And so just being able to say two plus two
equals four is probably you hate when you
leave something like this and you go
to a moment like, DOM node shows up,
you're like, I don't know what to do here.
So, we will make sure that we are ready
and able to deal with things in the DOM.
And we'll do it from multiple angles,
from one just grabbing DOM nodes and
playing with them, and
then it also can we spin up a browser and
point it at our app and
poke buttons for us, right?
Cuz it's all about that.
Automating the kicking the tires on
things so that we can make changes and
feel good about it.
And then we'll talk about the stuff
that we don't control, right?
Whether it's external network with hitting
an API, nobody likes the world where all
of a sudden your tests fail because a
backend engineer introduced a bug, right?
Never happens.
Or because you got rate
limited by an external API or
something along those lines.
So we'll learn how to make sure you're
not testing other people's code,
because if other people break other
people's code, now your tests fail and
now you turn them off.
The moment anything is flaky,
you know what you're gonna do,
you're just gonna delete that test.
So we'll deal with that
kind of stuff as well.
And like I said, we will drive
this from the browser as well.
That's probably a larger topic,
its own right, but
let's do the initial versions of getting
our heads wrapped around it as well.
So we have this website,
and it has all of my notes,
which I did a word count was like
tens of thousands of words of notes.
That is mostly if I took the time to write
them, might have them up there for you.
So there are things where it's like, I
wanna see that kind of code step by step.
Or a lot of times there's a lot of stuff
that we're not including that are kind of
further reading or
stuff along those lines.
That is all included there as well.
Even ancillary topics that I might,
in our time together only get a chance
to Kind of briefly touch upon.
Sometimes there is more
depth in there as well.
And linked from that site,
we've got a repository with a bunch of
little examples that I can kind of kick
the tires on and play around with.
And like I said,
if we need to whip up something new for
a particular question you have,
we'll do it.
But just to make sure that we
spend more time testing code than
watching me write very simple code.
So we've got a bunch of examples
to inspire us for tests and
stuff along those lines, cool.
Lastly, just in terms of tooling,
there are a lot of test runners out there.
There's Jest, there's Mocha, and Chai,
which are related, as you can guess.
Jasmine, there are a whole bunch of them.
Most of them are actually
the same under the hood, right?
Or at least we could write the same test
in about three different frameworks, and
the COVID run across the altar with maybe
just where we're importing it from, or
one little change.
So we're gonna use this one called Vitest.
It is a companion to V, which is also
works with react and angular and
spelt and view.
That said, if you use jest at work,
all of this stuff applies.
Occasionally, I'll point out the minor
difference between the two, but
in most cases it doesn't really matter,
right?
There might be a tiny little syntax
change between one or the other, but
most of them are based
on the same tooling.
The wrappers around the same
common libraries anyway.